---
layout: post
title: "Dear Impact Labs Fellowship"
date: 2019-10-18
author: Jon Mathai
---
Dear Impact Labs Fellowship,
<br/><br/>
I wanted to write this letter to talk about something I
didn't get to talk about in my application (mainly because I
was afraid the story would be a bit too long for the form).
I wanted to write about the time I went with my university's
InterVarsity fellowship for an event we called Feed500.
<br/><br/>
For this event we wanted to sit down and have lunch with people
looking for a meal in Manhattan. We took an 8am LIRR train from
Stony Brook to Penn station with about 25 lunches packed
with Bagels, Granola bars, an apple and bottles of Sunny D
and water. Once we reached the station we broke off into
groups of 3 to see who we could hand out lunches to. My
group left the station and sat down with two to three people
before we came to the outskirts of Central Park. Once we
arrived at that intersection we sat down with another man
who was seated right outside of the building next to us.
Let's call this man Micah for simplicity sake. Prior to our
lunch with Micah my group had some difficulty in our
previous lunches with the homeless. Many were appreciative
of the lunches we provided but didn't feel as comfortable
with us sitting down to share a meal with them. Micah seemed
more open to us sitting down with him but at the same time I
wouldn't say he was in high spirits when we initially sat
down with him. So my group took a seat on the pavement and
handed out the food as we all began to eat.
<br/><br/>
At first it was just our group who did most of the talking.
We told Micah about what we did as students, why we were on
this trip and about some of the activities we did in our
fellowship. After some time Micah started to open up a bit
more to us.
<br/><br/>
I wasn't really sure what to expect from his story. I had
some preconceived notions coming in but they didn't line up
with what I heard from Micah. As a freshman CS student, my
ears perked up when he told us he used to be a web designer
in New Jersey. That was something I didn't expect to hear.
He had worked there and own his own apartment until he had
got laid off at his job. Times were tough he told us. At the
time he only had so much money to pay for a month or two
more of rent. After that he would be evicted immediately
from his apartment. Usually in times like this people can
fall back on the people close to them, their family and
friends. However, Micah told us he wasn't close to his
family at that time. When he told his siblings about what
was happening to him they didn't seem to care. He didn't
make much a comment about friends when he was recounting
that time. So he didn't really have a place to go to when he
couldn't get a job. He told us that moving from New Jersey
to New York City was a wise move when he didn't have much of
a place to go to. This way he would be able to ask for money
when he can and be able to provide for himself with at least
the bare minimum.
<br/><br/>
That's how we ended up meeting Micah on the corner of that
building that day. As we continued talking with Micah I
wondered if this was really all we could do for him. Was all
we could do just provide a single meal for him? At the time
I couldn't really find an answer to that question. I was
just a freshman in college who had little to no experience
contemplating these issues. What could I possibly do to help
him in this situation. 
<br/><br/>
Soon we finished up lunch and it was time for us to keep
moving and handing out food throughout the city. As we left
I just suggested Micah to look into freelancing sites since
he had skills that could help him land a job. I gave some
examples of freelancing sites he could check out and he
thanked me for the tips as we left to continue with our
lunches through the city. Then we didn't see Micah any other
time later that day and yet that question I had back then is
still something I ask myself. What else could we have done
back then.
<br/><br/>
Micah's problem was something that was personal to him but
his issue wasn't something only unique to him. To deal with
a macroscopic issue a larger approach needs to be taken. A
single meal can do a lot for a person but to fix this larger
scale issue is the harder answer to find. Back then as a
freshman in computer science, my understanding of how I
could help with these larger issues was much more limited.
Now that I've gotten the chance to learn so much more and
broadened my worldview I'm better equipped to start tackling
these kind of issues. Since then there have been other
issues that have come to mind in addition to issues of
homelessness and poverty. Issues like agriculture scaling,
aiding science researchers, and community development to
name a few.
<br/><br/>
However, even with all of these issues only part of me feels 
better equipped. I know I'm more able
to pick up the technologies needed to build these solutions
but I still have so much to learn when it comes to building
solutions for these kinds of issues. How do I know that the
way I design my projects will be able to aid the people I
would like to help? If I don't make those decisions
carefully, then these solutions may just provide a facade of
help with very little actual impact. That's what I hope to
learn if being admitted to the fellowship. How to go about
starting these larger projects while keeping the design
focused upon the population of people I'm aiming to help.
How to make the project more than just another software
engineering endeavor but something that has real impact for
another individual. Getting the chance to collaborate with
other students and world changers that share a vision to
work towards developing that kind of change. To also get to
hear from leaders and founders that have walked through this
process before. To hear about the struggles they
encountered along the way and how they were able to combat
them while trying to fix these issues. Then I believe I can
say with more certainty that I will know the proper way to
go about tackling these issues.
<br/><br/>
So thank you for reading my open blog post to you Impact
Labs Team. I appreciate that you were able to hear me out 
through my writing. I hope I got to showcase why I wanted to
apply to this fellowship and if accepted, what I hope to
learn from it. Thank you again and look forward to hearing
from you soon!

