---
layout: post
title: "What's up 2020"
date: 2020-01-22
author: Jon Mathai
---
<h2 style="text-align:center;"><em>What's up 2020!</em></h2>
<p>
I'm a little late but I wanted to have a blog post to start off the new
year and recap some things I'm grateful for in 2019. Also, maybe (just maybe) 
this blog post can be a way to be publicly accountable for my yearly goals. 
</p>
<br/>
<p>
2019 was an interesting year. A year of new experiences and while I 
thoroughly enjoyed those times, I'm quite looking forward to the
goals I'm setting for myself this year. I will admit I have never really
been into setting new years resolutions for myself. I had always assumed
people that did such things never really committed to what they set out for
themselves. However, I want to push myself and grow in this next year, so
when it came to making concrete S.M.A.R.T Goals, I thought why not. Also
quick note: these goals are inspired by <a href="https://katmh.com">Kat
Huang</a> and <a href="https://thesephist.com">Linus</a>.
<br/><br/>
Below are some things I'm thankful for in 2019.
</p>
<h3>2019 Recap</h3>

<ol>
<li>
I went to InterVarsity's Urbana Conference in St Louis (The conference actually started Dec 27th and went into New Years so we're gonna count it).
</li>

<br/>

<li>
I played intramural basketball for the first time. I also realized I really should have picked up intramurals earlier on.
</li>

<br/>

<li>
I got really into volleyball and am still very interested in the sport (still trying to learn how to jump serve).
</li>

<br/>

<li>
I helped choose SBU InterVarsity's next leadership team.
</li>

<br/>

<li>
I completed a capstone course.
</li>

<br/>

<li>
I went on a roadtrip to Rhode Island with friends.
</li>

<br/>

<li>
I joined a nonprofit as a software developer.
</li>

<br/>

<li>
I helped plan and co-host a friendsgiving dinner for the first time
(which took a lot more preparation than I expected).
</li>

<br/>

<li>
I wrote (Act 1 of) my first ever TV Script.
</li>

<br/>

<li>
I graduated <i>Yay!</i>
</li>
</ol>
<br/>
And these are my goals for 2020.
<br/><br/>
<p>
<h3>2020 Goals</h3>
<ol>
<li>Read 20 books for 2020.</li> <br/>
<li>Publish 20 blog posts.</li> <br/>
<li>Take 1000 photos.</li> <br/>
<li>Learn how to cook and make 3-5 meals for friends and family.</li> <br/>
<li>Compete in a local American Ninja Warrior competition.</li> <br/>
<li>Run a Spartan Race.</li> <br/>
<li>Go on 3-5 roadtrips.</li> <br/>
<li>Build one substantial software project with friends that gains >= 500 users (numbers of users is negotiable).</li> <br/>
<li>Build 2-3 other (software) projects that I want to build.</li> <br/>
<li>Draw 5 pictures that I really enjoy.</li> <br/>
</ol>
</p>
<p>
These goals are what I'd like to achieve but they're pretty fluid.
So they may change over time. I'm most excited about building software people
will actually use. Up until now the most interesting things I've done have just been scripts I'd write for myself.
I've started to brainstorm some ideas with friends but nothing
super concrete as of yet. More on that to come. When I first wrote these 
goals down they did look intimidating but I'm hoping that feeling will
become the drive to try some new things this year. 
Also if I get around to it I will try to post about rough plans I have outlined in Notion to accomplish these goals.
</p>
<p>
Oh one other thing I wanted to mention about some upcoming blog posts for
this site. Though my current blog posts (excluding this one) are from 2019
I have some posts that I had written in previous years stored on my
computer. I have posts on my experience at the previous Urbana conference
and my day to day as a college student among others. I'm hoping to reupload
these posts to my current site with their original date.
Also keep a look out for my next upcoming blog post on a quick project I
made for my cousin the other day (It involves Pokemon and Golang).
<br/><br/>
Happy New Year y'all! Hope y'all had a rested holiday season!
</p>
